1. Write a shell script that asks for the values of 2 variables: userv1 and userv2, from the
user and takes in any type (real/integer/character). Try to perform the following
operations on the variables: (a) add, (b) multiply (c) subtract (d) division. Print
appropriate error message/s if the operation cannot be performed, otherwise print the
result: “the sum of ‘userv1’ and ‘userv2’ is ....”. Execute the shell script as many number
of times the user wants. Show all possible combinations of the types of variables and
result/s of the corresponding operation/s.
2. Write a shell script which accepts basic salary, House Rent allowance and Dearness
Allowance of an employee and calculates net salary and displays the salary slip
containing the Name of the Employee and the net salary.
3. Write a shell script which accepts a four digit number (integer) and a) displays the sum
of its digits, b) displays the integer in reverse [that is, if you enter 7890, the program
output will be 0987].
5. Write a shell script a) to find out the total count of files and directories in the current
/any other directory. b) Also list the file and directory names separately with the
respective counts. c) b) The script should also print out the total size of the files created in
the past week.
6. Write a script that adds up the sizes reported by the ls command for the files in the
current / any other directory. a) The script should print out only the total number of bytes
used. b) The script should also print out the total size of the files created in the day that
you are using this script.
7. The PATH variable is an environment variable that contains an ordered list of paths that
Linux will search for executables when running a command. Write a shell script to
display all the directories in the PATH variable in a simple way, i.e., one line per
directory. In addition, display information about each directory, such as the permissions
and the modification times.
8. Write a shell script which displays vendor id, model name, cpu MHz, cache size
information about the processor present in your computer. [Hint: most of this information
can be obtained by reading the file /proc/cpuinfo.]
9. Write a shell script multiplication_table that will generate a multiplication table for a
number given on the command line.
10. Write a shell script to count the number of lines in a file.